2021.1:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 6)
 * General: Added reset on flip-flops, no functional changes
 * General: Avoid address segment warning
 * General: Renamed "Resources" to "Resource Estimates" in the configuration dialog to distinguish it from "Resources" provided by Vivado

2020.3:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 5)
 * Bug Fix: Ensure that long immediate values are always valid. Versions that have this issue: 11.0 (Rev. 3, 4). Can only occur with 64-bit mode when using an immediate value greater than 40 bits directly preceded by a long M_AXI_DP interface access.

2020.2.2:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 4)
 * No changes

2020.2.1:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 4)
 * No changes

2020.2:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 4)
 * Bug Fix: Ensure that wdc.clear instruction takes entire cache address into account.  Versions that have this issue: 10.0, 11.0, 11.0 (Rev. 1, 2, 3). Can only occur with the frequency optimized 8-stage pipeline when data cache is enabled.
 * Other: Show user modified settings for the selected predefined configuration in the Vivado configuration dialog
 * Other: Prevent selecting ACE bus interface together with other invalid parameters in the Vivado configuration dialog

2020.1.1:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 3)
 * No changes

2020.1:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 3)
 * Feature Enhancement: Added fault tolerant support for frequency optimized pipeline
 * Feature Enhancement: Improved webtalk statistics to report selected preset or template
 * Other: Refined DRC metadata by de-scoping waivers to only apply to IP core. No functional changes.

2019.2.2:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 2)
 * No changes

2019.2.1:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 2)
 * No changes

2019.2:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 2)
 * Bug Fix: Ensure that swapb and swaph instruction result is correct. Versions that have this issue: 11.0, 11.0 (Rev. 1). Can only occur with area optimization when reorder instructions are enabled and pattern compare instructions are not enabled.
 * Bug Fix: Do not generate underflow for corner case double multiplication 2.225073858507202e-308 * 0.9999999999999998. Versions that have this issue: 11.0, 11.0 (Rev. 1). Can only occur with 64-bit mode when floating point is enabled.
 * Bug Fix: Calculate address parameters greater than 32 bits correctly on Windows. Versions that have this issue: 9.6, 10.0, 11.0, 11.0 (Rev. 1). Can only occur with extended address enabled on Windows Operating System.
 * Feature Enhancement: Added additional 64-bit immediate arithmetic and logic instructions
 * Other: Versal ACAP Series architecture support added
 * Other: Added reset on all flip-flops, no functional changes
 * Other: Changed default value of parameters C_ICACHE_ALWAYS_USED and C_DCACHE_ALWAYS_USED to 1
 * Other: Corrected Vivado configuration dialog branch target cache size tooltip, choices and Block RAM count

2019.1.3:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 1)
 * No changes

2019.1.2:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 1)
 * No changes

2019.1.1:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 1)
 * No changes

2019.1:
 * Version 11.0 (Rev. 1)
 * Bug Fix: Avoid synthesis error for instruction victim cache. Versions that have this issue: 7.30.a - 11.0. Can only occur with area or performance optimization when instruction victim cache is enabled, and instruction cache and external memory sizes are equal.
 * Other: Supported devices and production status are now determined automatically, to simplify support for future devices
 * Other: Updated waivers to add tag. No functional changes.
 * Other: Improved compatibility of 64-bit mode instructions

2018.3.1:
 * Version 11.0
 * No changes

2018.3:
 * Version 11.0
 * Bug Fix: Output Extended Debug Trace PC when exception occurs correctly. Versions that have this issue: 10.0. Can only occur with area optimization when extended debug trace is enabled.
 * Bug Fix: Prevent intermittent loss of Extended Debug Trace data after processor debug halt. Versions that have this issue: 10.0. Can only occur when external debug trace is enabled.
 * Bug Fix: Write SLR and SHR correctly independent of previous instruction behavior. Versions that have this issue: 10.0. Can only occur with frequency optimization when stack protection is enabled.
 * Feature Enhancement: Updated with 64-bit mode
 * Other: Output Extended Debug Trace initial PC after start from first executing instruction instead of current PC
 * Other: Added AXI bus interface property HAS_LOCK

2018.2:
 * Version 10.0 (Rev. 7)
 * Bug Fix: Handle Ext_NM_BRK exception independent of whether Ext_BRK is connected or not. Versions that have this issue: 7.10.a-10.0. Can only occur with performance optimization when Ext_BRK is not connected.
 * Other: Added support for Virtex UltraScale+ 58g devices
 * Other: Updated HDL to avoid lint errors. No functional change.

2018.1:
 * Version 10.0 (Rev. 6)
 * General: Add waivers to suppress reported invalid DRC and CDC violations

2017.4:
 * Version 10.0 (Rev. 5)
 * Bug Fix: Prevent potential spurious software breakpoints. Versions that have this issue: 10.0. Can only occur with frequency optimization when debugging with software breakpoints.
 * Bug Fix: Ensure that DZO bit in MSR is not inadvertently cleared. Versions that have this issue: 10.0. Can only occur with frequency optimization when using integer divide.
 * Other: Generate warning if no cacheable memory is available when caches are enabled.
 * Other: Add additional constraints for debug external trace.

2017.3:
 * Version 10.0 (Rev. 4)
 * Bug Fix: Corrected victim cache address size computation causing synthesis error. Versions that have this issue: 10.0. Can only occur with performance optimization when using instruction victim cache with extended address and MMU virtual mode enabled.
 * Bug Fix: Ensure that a write is not attempted when the outstanding number of writes on M_AXI_DC has reached the maximum value 31. Can only occur with data cache enabled when writing to the cacheable address range.
 * Feature Enhancement: Include preset configurations for microcontroller, real-time, and application
 * Feature Enhancement: Add extended debug event trace
 * Feature Enhancement: Add support for XPM memory
 * Other: Added support for XA Zynq UltraScale+ and XA Spartan-7 devices

2017.2:
 * Version 10.0 (Rev. 3)
 * General: Improve cache warning messages to avoid duplication
 * General: Provide parameter to select asynchronous reset for debug external trace

2017.1:
 * Version 10.0 (Rev. 2)
 * Bug Fix: Prevent inadvertent setting of the MSR Break In Progress (BIP) flag when a software breakpoint occurs. Versions that have this issue: 10.0. Can only occur with the frequency optimized 8-stage pipeline when using software breakpoints in the debugger.
 * Feature Enhancement: Support extended address using MMU physical address extension (PAE)
 * Feature Enhancement: Allow setting external program trace buffer size
 * Other: Added support for Zynq UltraScale+ RFSOC and Virtex UltraScale+ HBM devices
 * Other: Updated logotype
 * Other: Simplified decoding of extended debug program trace

2016.4:
 * Version 10.0 (Rev. 1)
 * General: Modify HDL to avoid tool warnings, no functional changes

2016.3:
 * Version 10.0
 * Port Change: Added parallel debug access signals
 * Bug Fix: Do not fetch instructions for sleep reset mode. Versions that have this issue: 9.4, 9.5, 9.6. Can only occur when debug is disabled and using Reset_Mode.
 * Bug Fix: Ensure that interrupts do not interfere with debug stepping. Versions that have this issue: 9.3, 9.4, 9.5, 9.6.
 * Feature Enhancement: Updated with frequency optimized 8-stage pipeline
 * Feature Enhancement: Provide parallel synchronous debug access
 * Feature Enhancement: Included additional MSR reset value parameter choices
 * Feature Enhancement: Added additional AXI bus interface properties
 * Feature Enhancement: Automatically adjust boot loop ELF to match Vector Base Address
 * Other: Added support for Spartan-7 devices

2016.2:
 * Version 9.6 (Rev. 1)
 * Added AXI bus interface property HAS_BURST

2016.1:
 * Version 9.6
 * Added support for extended address
 * Improved sleep functionality
 * Enhanced support for AXI-4 access permissions
 * Support for Virtex UltraScale devices at Production status

2015.4.2:
 * Version 9.5 (Rev. 3)
 * No changes

2015.4.1:
 * Version 9.5 (Rev. 3)
 * No changes

2015.4:
 * Version 9.5 (Rev. 3)
 * Improved automatic assignment of cache addresses to select largest address segment

2015.3:
 * Version 9.5 (Rev. 2)
 * Updated family names for additional Ultrascale devices
 * Added LMB and AXI monitor interfaces to simplify lockstep slave bus interface connection
 * Improved lockstep handling to hide slave processors from ELF file association
 * Enhanced detection of lockstep master from a lockstep slave processor
 * Corrected debug single-step behavior with branch target cache enabled. Versions that have this issue: 9.0, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, 9.4, 9.5. Can only occur when BTC is enabled.
 * Updated automatic setting of External Trace to avoid validation error when MDM is not found. Versions that have this issue: 9.4, 9.5. Can only occur when Extended Debug is enabled.
 * Reduced warnings in synthesis
 * IP revision number added to HDL module, library, and include file names, to support designs with both locked and upgraded IP instances

2015.2.1:
 * Version 9.5 (Rev. 1)
 * No changes

2015.2:
 * Version 9.5 (Rev. 1)
 * Prevent instruction cache stream from fetching an incorrect cache line, occurring in rare cases with many outstanding read accesses. Versions that have this issue: 9.0, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, 9.4, 9.5. Can only occur when instruction cache stream is enabled.

2015.1:
 * Version 9.5
 * Added support for 16 word cache lines
 * Added support for optional imprecise ECC exceptions to improve QoR
 * Improved detection of lockstep master for DRC in lockstep slave
 * Added support for additional Ultrascale devices
 * Enabled out-of-context clock frequency setting by adding FREQ_HZ parameter to clock interface
 * Set outstanding reads to 1 for AXI cache interfaces when the data width is 128 bits, 256 bits or 512 bits
 * Ensure that distributed RAM is not used when C_AVOID_PRIMITIVES is set to 2 or 3. Versions that have this issue: 9.0, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, 9.4.
 * If parameters C_DCACHE_ALWAYS_USED and C_ICACHE_ALWAYS_USED are not set, use peripheral AXI interfaces for memory accesses within the cacheable address range when caches are disabled. Versions that have this issue: 9.0, 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, 9.4.
 * Fixed behavioral simulation stall due to uninitialized internal debug signal. Versions that have this issue: 9.4. Can only occur when debug and area optimization are not enabled.
 * Set debug status correctly for sleep after reset. Versions that have this issue: 9.4. Can only occur when debug is enabled and using Reset_Mode.

2014.4.1:
 * Version 9.4 (Rev. 1)
 * No changes

2014.4:
 * Version 9.4 (Rev. 1)
 * Added parameters to control synchronization primitives, no functional changes
 * Removed warnings for Block RAM instantiations, no functional changes
 * Encrypted source files are concatenated together to reduce the number of files and to reduce simulator compile time

2014.3:
 * Version 9.4
 * Added debug enhancement: External Program Trace
 * Set default value of parameter C_EDGE_IS_POSITIVE to 1
 * Corrected issue causing exception in return instruction delay slot to be ignored in rare cases. Versions that have this issue: 9.3. Can only occur when branch target cache is enabled.
 * Avoid stall for multiple outstanding data cache write accesses followed by a single access occuring in rare cases. Versions that have this issue: 9.3. Can only occur when data cache is enabled.
 * Also allow reading SLR and SHR registers when the FPU is not enabled. Versions that have this issue: 9.3, 9.2, 9.1, 9.0, 8.50.c, 8.50.b, 8.50.a, 8.40.b, 8.40.a, 8.30.a, 8.20.b, 8.20.a, 8.10.d, 8.10.c, 8.10.b, 8.10.a. Can only occur when stack protection and area optimization is enabled and the FPU is not enabled.

2014.2:
 * Version 9.3 (Rev. 1)
 * Internal change management process enhancements, no functional changes

2014.1:
 * Version 9.3
 * Added debug enhancements: Program Trace, Performance Monitoring, Non-intrusive Profiling and Cross Trigger support
 * Updated OOC constraints to include debug clocks
 * Removed unused code and signals to improve coverage metrics
 * Fixed issue causing an incorrect vector for External Non-maskable Break. Versions that have this issue: 9.2, 9.1, 9.0, 8.50.c, 8.50.b, 8.50.a, 8.40.b, 8.40.a, 8.30.a, 8.20.b, 8.20.a, 8.10.d, 8.10.c, 8.10.b, 8.10.a, 8.00.b, 8.00.a, 7.30.b, 7.30.a, 7.20.d, 7.20.c, 7.20.b, 7.20.a, 7.10.d, 7.10.c, 7.10.b, 7.10.a, 7.00.b, 7.00.a. Can only occur when area optimization is enabled.
 * Ensure that AXI4-Stream get instructions with exceptions never write to the destination register. Versions that have this issue: 9.2, 9.1, 9.0, 8.50.c, 8.50.b, 8.50.a, 8.40.b, 8.40.a, 8.30.a. Can only occur when area optimization is enabled.
 * Internal device family name change, no functional changes
 * Removed unused WebTalk core generation information, no functional changes

2013.4:
 * Version 9.2 (Rev. 1)
 * Improved automatic assignment of cache addresses

2013.3:
 * Version 9.2
 * Vivado-only core, with no functional changes compared to EDK version 8.50.c
 * Fixed issues causing an Instruction Bus Exception on a branch instruction to be handled incorrectly. Versions that have this issue: 9.1, 9.0, 8.40.b, 8.40.a, 8.30.a, 8.20.b, 8.20.a, 8.10.d, 8.10.c, 8.10.b, 8.10.a, 8.00.b, 8.00.a, 7.30.b, 7.30.a, 7.20.d, 7.20.c, 7.20.b, 7.20.a, 7.10.d, 7.10.c, 7.10.b, 7.10.a, 7.00.b, 7.00.a. Can only occur when area optimization is enabled, and either instruction bus exception or fault tolerance is enabled.
 * Avoid rare issue that can cause loss of coherency. Versions that have this issue: 8.50.b, 8.50.a. Can only occur when coherency is enabled by setting C_INTERCONNECT = 3.
 * Support for Automotive Artix-7, Automotive Zynq,  Defense Grade Artix-7, and Defense Grade Zynq devices at Production status
 * Reduced warnings in synthesis and simulation

2013.2:
 * Version 9.1
 * Vivado-only core, with no functional changes compared to EDK version 8.50.b
 * Avoid stall for Stack Protection Violation exception caused by a cache miss memory access. Versions that have this issue: 9.0, 8.40.b, 8.40.a, 8.30.a, 8.20.b, 8.20.a, 8.10.d, 8.10.c, 8.10.b, 8.10.a. Can only occur when stack protection and area optimization are enabled, and write-back data cache is not used.
 * Prevent spurious write to SHR and SLR in rare cases when exception occurs. Versions that have this issue: v8.50.a, v8.40.b, v8.40.a, v8.30.a, v8.20.b, v8.20.a, v8.10.d, v8.10.c, v8.10.b, v8.10.a. Can only occur when stack protection and area optimization are enabled.

2013.1:
 * Version 9.0
 * Vivado-only core, with no functional changes from EDK version 8.50.a
 * Cache coherency based on AXI Coherency Extension (ACE)
 * Fixed issue with swapb for area version when C_USE_PCMP_INSTR = 0. Versions that have this issue: 8.40.b, 8.40.a, 8.30.a.

2012.4:
 * Version 8.40.b
 * No changes

2012.3:
 * Version 8.40.b
 * Relocatable base vectors
 * Wizard mode in the Vivado configuration dialog
 * Removed support for qvirtex7l and virtex7l
 * Avoid timing issues due to unused flip-flops connecting clock to data. Version that has this issue: 8.40.a.
 * Ensure that memory barrier waits for adjacent data cache access in all cases. Version that has this issue: 8.40.a.

2012.2:
 * Version 8.40.a
 * Native Vivado release
 * Sleep mode for power reduction
 * Remove inadvertent dependence on C_USE_PCMP_INSTR for byte and halfword swap instructions, which can only occur when area optimization is not enabled. Version that has this issue: v8.30.a.
 * The changelog for previous MicroBlaze versions can be found in Answer Record 46824 (http://www.xilinx.com/support/answers/46824.htm)

(c) Copyright 2002 - 2021 Xilinx, Inc. All rights reserved.

This file contains confidential and proprietary information
of Xilinx, Inc. and is protected under U.S. and
international copyright and other intellectual property
laws.

DISCLAIMER
This disclaimer is not a license and does not grant any
rights to the materials distributed herewith. Except as
otherwise provided in a valid license issued to you by
Xilinx, and to the maximum extent permitted by applicable
law: (1) THESE MATERIALS ARE MADE AVAILABLE "AS IS" AND
WITH ALL FAULTS, AND XILINX HEREBY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
AND CONDITIONS, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING
BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, NON-
INFRINGEMENT, OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE; and
(2) Xilinx shall not be liable (whether in contract or tort,
including negligence, or under any other theory of
liability) for any loss or damage of any kind or nature
related to, arising under or in connection with these
materials, including for any direct, or any indirect,
special, incidental, or consequential loss or damage
(including loss of data, profits, goodwill, or any type of
loss or damage suffered as a result of any action brought
by a third party) even if such damage or loss was
reasonably foreseeable or Xilinx had been advised of the
possibility of the same.

CRITICAL APPLICATIONS
Xilinx products are not designed or intended to be fail-
safe, or for use in any application requiring fail-safe
performance, such as life-support or safety devices or
systems, Class III medical devices, nuclear facilities,
applications related to the deployment of airbags, or any
other applications that could lead to death, personal
injury, or severe property or environmental damage
(individually and collectively, "Critical
Applications"). Customer assumes the sole risk and
liability of any use of Xilinx products in Critical
Applications, subject only to applicable laws and
regulations governing limitations on product liability.

THIS COPYRIGHT NOTICE AND DISCLAIMER MUST BE RETAINED AS
PART OF THIS FILE AT ALL TIMES.
